Messages From The Universe










 Messages 
from the universe.




MEFTU,  a spiritual guide for
everyday living and for peace and happiness.










By:
Peter Glen
Introduction

    We are in the first quarter of the twenty first century. We have tamed most of the rivers, contained most of the lakes, found cure for most ailments, created astonishing technological achievements, but we are still coming short  of uniting mankind for greater understanding, peace and happiness.

  These set of messages are set out to fill that mission. It is a collection of short stories. Just as every story one tells, these stories are painted with a little bias towards glorifying what happened.  Read it with care, and attempt to see beyond the lines, words, and sentences to interpret the true meaning we wish to communicate.

  An important thing in our journey of life, is to include everybody into that flow.  Every single life matters. No need to make a distinction between gender, ethnicity, religion,  social status,  accumulated wealth,  perceived power and race.  The universe will deliver message after message (and treat one) without regards to any of those  distinctions.  

  The reason I started writing this collection of messages, is that the universe compelled me to give back some of the good I received.  In my life, I had the fortune to live in different countries, spanning different continents.  The luxury of making friends from different cultures, enduring hardships, enjoying triumphs.  In my journeys I learned how important it is to be an honorable and humble human being.  I learned the importance of help and generosity. I learned the importance of  humane treatment  of all that surrounds us and all that binds us.  And  I learned to treat everybody kindly and with acceptance and wisdom. Despite all that separates us.

    I hope you will arrive to your own conclusions from this collection.  Empower you to boldly go where no one has gone before. Let us create this new world of happiness, peace, coexistence and harmony. After centuries of  unnecessary conflict we can stop fighting and  manifest mankind as one united happy and productive group.

Table of Contents




	Apple --------------------------	The apple does not fall far from -------------	Page  1
	Bee ----------------------------	The magic of bumblebee's flight ------------	Page  2
	Control -----------------------	Everybody is a little controller --------------	Page  3
	Death ------------------------- 	Nature's answer to continuity ----------------	Page  4
	Earth -------------------------- 	The blue ball of the moon landing -----------	Page  5
	Focus ------------------------- 	The focus you keep, is who you are --------	Page  6
	Good -------------------------- 	The good the bad and the universe ----------	Page  7
	Healing ----------------------- 	Unclogging the obstruction ------------------	Page  8
	Inalienable ------------------- 	The traits of society ---------------------------	Page  9
	Joke --------------------------- 	How not to be a comedian -------------------	Page 10
	Kitchen ----------------------- 	The ever shifting table dirt -------------------	Page 11
	Looks ------------------------- 	The dream I have ------------------------------	Page 12
	Molecules -------------------- 	The neighboring interaction -----------------	Page 13
	Newton ----------------------- 	Equal and opposing forces -------------------	Page 14
	Old  --------------------------- 	The power of tradition ------------------------	Page 15
	Potato ------------------------- 	The spiritual Quantum Physics --------------	Page 16
	Query ------------------------- 	Looking for answers --------------------------	Page 17
	Religion ---------------------- 	Our spiritual side ------------------------------	Page 18
	Snake ------------------------- 	In the bushes -----------------------------------	Page 19
	Tribe ------------------------- 	Comprehending Tribal roots  ----------------	Page 20
	Underwear ------------------- 	Hidden slaves ----------------------------------	Page 21
	Venom ------------------------ 	Of the spirit ------------------------------------	Page 22
	Wish -------------------------- 	For a better world ------------------------------	Page 23
	Xtras -------------------------- 	Miracles and wonders -------------------------	Page 24
	You ---------------------------- 	The center of the universe --------------------	Page 25
	Zigzag ------------------------ 	Of choices --------------------------------------	Page 26
















Apple

   In the vastness of the universe,  everything is connected.  Everything affects us. According to the reverse distance rule, the further something is,  the less it  has an effect on us.  How about something that is so close, that is within us.  Like food.  Indeed, nothing affects us as severely, as profoundly, as the food we eat, and as the liquid we drink.

    In search for the perfect food, mankind  has iterated  all kinds of  exotic and strange food materials.  And  the perfect food was right in front of us.  The apple.  In fact,  no other edible object has more parables attached to it.  For instance:  'The apple does not fall far from its tree'  or  'An apple a day keeps the doctor away' ...  and so forth.  

   By itself,  the apple is incomplete nutrition. To search for  complete nutrition,  we can look at an time honored dish or an ancient [traditional] feast. Recent nutritional studies confirmed,  that the nutritional balance of those dishes are exactly what a human being needs as complete nutrition.

    But taking a closer look at our current nutrition reveals that tradition has misled us. For instance,  we routinely consume  milk, but we do not have the enzyme to digest  it's main nutrition.  Mother nature made sure,  that our enzyme to digest lactose recedes,  essentially weaning us off mother's breasts. Hence the numerous cases of lactose intolerance.  In reality every adult is  lactose intolerant,  as the enzyme is largely receded. Still,  not everyone develops symptoms.

    As a rule,  if one person is allergic to  a particular nutrition,  everyone is allergic to it.  But not everyone develops symptoms.  Wheat allergy,  peanut allergy,  (By the way peanut is a relative of poison ivy)  are all allergies that are universally affecting everybody,  but with a different degree of effect. 

  Our digestive system has evolved  over millenniums,  and if we pay attention to its evolution,  we can deduce what good or bad nutrition is.  For instance,  accepting our ancestry as the primitive man,  he did not have access to means of  toppling a cow or a bull.  Hence our digestive system did not have training to digest large mammal meat.  Even though it is a consumable nutrition,  by no means it is ideal nutrition. 

   In search for idea nutrition,  we can look for a good example in the eastern cultures. Their nutrition has no allergenic ingredients. In opposition to that,  take a look at the western fast food offerings.  Every single item on the menu has allergenic ingredient, from wheat to large mammal meat to synthetic food  to ingredients that do not even have pronounceable names. 

    Remembered the reverse distance rule.  Nothing will have more effect than something with negative distance (actually within you).  Choose wisely.  Request all-knowing. 

    Food for thought, the second most important effect is still coming from within.  It is our mental nourishment. What we focus on, what we consider, what we allow in. If we permit - poison / jealousy / greed,  or if we elect happiness, abundance, sharing -  will determine our mental nourishment. But that is the subject for a whole new chapter.  Read on.
Bee

     For  the better part of a century,  we were puzzled about the bumblebee.  Being a big bee, having small wings. How can it fly?  Measurements have been taken, calculations have been laid out, and applying all the  formulas that we build airplanes with, we can clearly demonstrate that the bumblebee cannot fly.

    This has puzzled scientists, philosophers and ordinary people. Despite, that we can mathematically and scientifically prove that the bumblebee cannot fly, the bumblebee does not know about this, it just flies.  How can that be? What makes the bumblebee fly? 

    Not until the middle of the century, could we explain the bumblebee's flight. With the advent of  high-speed cameras, we could observe that the bumblebee's wings touch when they reach the top. They squeeze out  the air  from between them, and when they separate, they create a vacuum.  This vacuum  effect accounts for the missing force.

   The humble bumble.  We have to admit, pretty curious,  that even a simple thing as the bumblebee's flight puzzled us for a historical length of time.  The only way we can internalize this,  is that we have to be humble.  Introspection tells us, that the bumblebee phenomena is not the only  puzzle needing humbleness. For instance, when they launched the Hubble space telescope, they established that the universe is 4.x billion years old. They stated it with confidence, they even had an accurate number, and mankind accepted it as fact. Years later with advances in instrumentation and low noise sensors, we established that the universe is now 8.x billion years old.   Which one is it?

     One thing was missing from these scientific advances. Humbleness. Would they have admitted, that it is a conclusion based upon what we can see today, all would have been forgiven. But they drew actual conclusions, and stated hypotheses with certainty. Looking at the human dynamics, and the society that measures it, physicists wanted to produce something tangible for their tenure. Would they have been surrounded with a humble society, requiring  humbleness, this is how this discovery would have been announced: With our instrumentation today, we see 4 billion years into the past. And then years later the announcement would have worded similar with the 8 billion year number.  Sadly, as of today, the announcement stands in its original form with no trace of humbleness.

    We have limited capacity to comprehend things.  There are things that are beyond our mental reach.  Things that we are not meant to know. Remember when the cavemen had seen lightning, that lit  a tree on fire.  He believed it to be supernatural. Today, lightning is a well-known phenomena. Our challenges expand to more complex and more abstract observations.  Are we humble enough to state them as we see them, to state them as a theory,  to state them as an instance of our ever involving knowledge? Are we humble enough as a society to demand to be stated as such?

     The universe is a large and complex place. We really are not meant to comprehend it all. Let's look at our brain's  internal workings. We are looking at our brain with a  scientific instrument, attempting to comprehend its internals.  But we are using that same brain to evaluate our observations.  The more we we understand  about our brains workings, the more complex our brain gets.  The more complex our brain gets the more studies we have to do, thus entering a forever spiraling loop. We are not meant to do that.  Especially in light of our bumblebee conundrum.

   
Control

   Let's create a hypothetical scenario. From the upstairs bedroom, you walk down to the kitchen and open  the refrigerator.  From the fridge, there is a large and tasty looking cookie, and a glass of milk smiling at you. The obvious thing happens, you eat the cookie and drink the milk.  This makes you sleepy you go back to bed.

    In hypothetical scenario, the next morning you wake up a little groggy. You go downstairs only to find  cookie crumbles and an empty glass of milk on the kitchen counter. Then you suddenly realize: how can I expect to control anybody else, if I cannot control myself?

   This leads to a very serious set of directives. The most obvious one, that if you cannot control yourself, how do you expect to control others. The directives derived go on and on  …  to constricting spoken language. One has to be very careful about  constructs that involve the word 'must' and 'should'  that targets a second or third person. (like: 'you should')  Every time you hear somebody using these constructs, it is wrong. If you cannot control yourself, how do you expect to control others?

  When you see or hear somebody using this kind of language, you can be assured that it is a person with no power,  no trust and no responsibility.  Because anyone who thinks they can approach the universe with that kind of a control, misses the fundamental nature of the universe as well as the nature of human interaction. Even powerful dictators cannot assume this kind of control in the long term.

   I am sure that you recall or recognize people around you who use this control language on a regular basis. You can compare notes here and mentally confirm this observation.  But there is more.  Not only is this construct wrong in grammar and pronunciation,  the construct is also wrong in thought.  Anyone whose universe is dependent on that kind of a control is bound to get out of hand, because this level of control can only exist temporarily. 

   Another directive derived from this observation points to a rule, that exists in the opposite vector direction.  The more power one has,  the more gentle one has to be in using that power.  There are historical records of leaders who use this principle so strikingly that they exist as the greatest of mankind.  And there are also historical facts that show the opposite, confirming power can only exist with the gentle and humble person, or it will evaporate quickly,  allowing it to only exist temporarily.

   That is why, it is not up to our leaders to tell us what to do,  it is up to us to tell the leaders what we desire. If a leader fails to observe our wishes, that leader is no longer a leader and  will be treated as such. Remember, the leader exists with the agreement of the people he / she leads. Without the people, without the people to lead, no leader exists.

   In conclusion,  you probably are astounded that we arrived to describe mankind's greatest leaders from a glass of milk and a cookie.

Death

   Many a times I have been posed the question:  'Why do we die?'  The question comes mostly when people are trying to evaluate the meaning of life, or they have lost something dear, like a loss of a loved one.

    The answer is hard to digest, because our thinking is strongly influenced by our ego.  Yet, when we can put ego aside and observe the universe as it unfolds its magic, we immediately recognize that the universe does not preserve any of its creatures. Instead, it creates an offspring.  In the creation of an offspring the universe assures continuity. This also allows for corrections, adaptations. A way to create a more suitable and more survivable instance of the species. We see this whenever we observe animal life or plant life. 

  It would be foolish to assume that we are not subject to the same rules and laws.  Indeed we are an exceptional creature but the universe treats us very much the same way as it treats other creatures. It creates an offspring with better adapted to the currently existing environment.  Immediately what comes to mind is observing a teenager handling technology an order of magnitude better than I (or we) ever could.  The universe obsoleted me,  and there is already an offspring that is ready to create continuation.

    And therein lies the key to something new. We die, because the universe renders us obsolete.  But we can influence that. Some would say, we can even control that. We can continue to be naive, we can continue to learn, we can continue to adapt.  That way,  the universe is not seeing an obsolete creature but a very much alive and vibrant, ready to survive instance of the species. Ever wonder why some people go away at fifty and why other people can live as long as a hundred or more?

  The common element with people possessing such longevity is the ability to adapt, keeping the curiosity and maintaining the freshness of mind. These things we can control, these things can be totally managed.

    Every creature has its lifespan.  If you owned a dog (or any pet), you know the pet's lifespan is  a lot  shorter than that of the human. So every pet owner experiences this loss. But it is not really a loss if you accept the consequences of a shorter lifespan,  and ready yourself . That way you can summarize and focus on the good things that happened, and be prepared for the loss, and accept  it as the universe presented it.

  When loosing a loved one, the same applies. Celebrate the continuation the universe created. Ask yourself: the loved one, that died, would he / she want you to be happy?




Earth

    I recall when they sent televised pictures from the Apollo moon landing. One of the images was a beautiful blue sphere,  with intricate patterns of clouds and outlines of continents.  It was a breathtaking moment to introspect our whole planet as one fragile blue globe.

   Perhaps this was the very first image, that hinted on mankind's existence as inhabitants of that beautiful blue sphere. It looked so intricate, so fragile, so unified,  that one could not help but think of it as such. For one brief moment, humanity was one big family. 

   We are one big family.  Take a look at an infant child.  He/she trusts everything. Smiles all the time, does not know the difference between one person or the other. Into this blank slate, we  can materialize everything that a human being needs.  To survive, to grow up,  to be  happy,  peaceful and complete.  Instead into this blank slate with fill in hatred, poison, fear, discrimination.  Why?  Gone are the times when the tribe next door was the enemy, because they have to compete for territory and food.  We have such abundance, that if we learn to share it, that if we learn to distributed evenly, everybody can call grow up complete and happy.

   So what happened? Why the poison? Why the hatred?   It is because we grew up in an environment that inherited this psychological foundation from the tribal era. We need to break this cycle. And the only way to break it, is to be aware of this tribal heritage, and expand into the mindset of a global society.  Very unfortunate that this poisonous environment continues today on the planet, because people with means did not care about breaking this toxic cycle. We all have to participate and care. And show a better example.

    By this century we are so powerful that we can annihilate each other multiple times. Breaking the poison cycle is not only important, it is critical.  Look at the mechanics of war. Just one picture of the troops with their  military leader tells the whole story.  And here's how the story goes.  A middle-aged leader on the front,  and a lot of boys behind him. Boys in their teens or early twenties. How did they convince all of those teens to take up arms and point rifles at another human being?

    Unfortunately,  these teen's blank slate have been filled up with poison,  justification and judgment.  It is no coincidence,  in most pictures, no middle-aged person is behind the military leader.  By the time a person reaches his/her middle age, he or she already possesses the understanding of the value of life. By that age, the person understands the hypocrisy of the empire(s) that tries to convince anyone from killing. Our task, is to educate the value of life to everyone, especially including those that may hold the rifle on the battlefield. Both on this, and on the other side of the planet.

   Take a look at the person next to you.  He or she is more similar in every way than different.  So why do we focus on the difference?  How can we justify war?  How can we sanctify killing? From now on, there is no justification, to take a single life.  Instead, form a society in balance, and create law and order, peace and happiness by other means than taking a life.  Remember the  ultimate balance sheet of history.  Of any war, we look at the losses of lives of the aggressor side,  is about the same as the losses on the assaulted side.   If and when we wage a war, are we ignorant enough to think that our balance sheet will be different? Those who ignore history tend to repeat its  failures.

Focus
 
   The psychology teacher takes his class out to the side of a busy road.  He asks the class to bring a notepad and a pencil, and instructs the students to count the number of red cars till the end of the hour.

   He returns at the end of the hour,  and asks the class:  how many blue cars passed? The whole class was startled.  They claimed, that they have been counting red cars.   The teacher explained,  that this was a metaphor for your focus in life.  If you are counting red cars, you do not know how many blue cars passed by. If you are focusing on the bad things in life, you will never know how many good things in life you have.

     There is a related phenomena that has been popular for a decade or so.  It was the 'positive thinking' era.  But positive thinking is an incorrect answer, because most of the positive thinking is done by ignoring the negative, sweeping it under the carpet. However, life is incomplete without the balance of the two. One has to acknowledge both the positive and the negative aspects of everything that is presented.  While acknowledging both, you are free to choose your focus, and your focus may weigh with a little more emphasis towards the positive.

   If you read the Good (friction) chapter, you know that the definition of positive and negative is fluid, they are merely vectors. The valuation of those vectors depend on your point of view.  This automatically proves that  you cannot ignore or sweep under the carpet either one of them, because every aspect has both a positive and negative side.  It is a complex universe to navigate.  With no compass,  no guidance,  no direction, it is hard to know what is the correct item to focus on.

   There are some benchmark questions that guide you  in your selection of choosing focus.  For example, choosing focus on a particular item: Will this matter a decade from now?  Will this item at focus help anybody?  Will this item  I'm focusing on  help humanity? Create more happiness?  Create more wealth? Create more comfort?  Are there any other item(s) I should be focusing on instead? Items with greater impact?

   When you're working with a team, the item at focus should be the item that empowers the team to continue the endeavor towards the end goal. When you're working individually the choice of focus item can be more liberal.  You may pick a focus item that supports your vision, your dreams or items that underpin your ego.

   The most fascinating aspect of focus is that it can be said with certainty, that your focus will determine your future, your focus will determine your success, and your focus will determine who you will become.  Perhaps even more telling, that if you substitute the word 'focus' with the word 'choices' in this document, it will be equally true.  Your choices to date determined where you are now, and who you are today, and your choices from now on will determine your success and who you will become. Make it  in a way, that you will be worthy of imitating and deserving of being chosen as a role model.


Good

   I postulate the question about friction: is it Good or is it Bad.  Positive or Negative? And by friction I mean the friction between two solid objects like your hand sliding on top of a coffee table.

    On the one hand we can say friction is bad.  That is why we have to put gas in the car, to fight friction.  On the other hand we can say friction is good, because without friction we could not even start off our car from its parking place.  

   We were looking at a natural phenomena, friction, discovering its duality.  It can qualify both as a positive thing and as a negative thing.  The error here is that we are trying to quantify good and bad, positive and negative. Good and Bad does not not exist.  They are dependent on our point of view.  They are just pointy arrows or vectors, which point in a particular direction dependent upon our value system and our point of view.  However, in our human existence, we always have an idea of what is good and what is bad.  Looking at the vector nature of good and bad,  I gather, new guidance is needed on how to navigate the complexity of this matter.

    Most importantly you cannot tell 'Good and Bad' apart when you are not calm. You cannot know the difference when you are angry,  when you are distracted, when you are not rested.  To tell the distinction between good and bad first you need to be at peace, calm and composed.  Do whatever it takes to reach a calm state before you render judgment about anything good or bad.  Especially if your render has influences or consequences. 

   The second important guiding rule of  'Good and Bad' are the answers to the following questions: Does it harm anyone or does it harm anything? Does it result in benefits to anyone? Do the benefits outweigh the side effects or the harmful effects? Naturally, the only question that is asked for sure is: Does it benefit / effect me? There is nothing wrong with that question as long as all the other questions are examined as well.

    The third important rule of good and bad is examining the need for very question itself. Do we even need to have a good or bad  judgment about that (some)thing? We very rarely need to decide.  But we do anyway.  We live in a society / world that is extremely judgmental, everything is categorized, cataloged,  numbered, bagged, tagged, shipped and judged.  We do not need to do any of that with matters that do not affect us. Still, we have a strong stance on anything and everything. Shame.

   Avoiding judgment is the best course of action. Just like friction cannot be categorized as good or bad most of the things in the universe cannot be categorized either.  The wisest way to navigate is to accept things as they are. Acknowledging something as it exists. There are no good or bad things, they are subject to point of view. And more importantly it is more than two quantities.  It never is an extreme in one direction or an extreme and another direction, rather, it is a gradient  with many many possible values.

  There is wisdom in comprehending the universe as it is presented,  not as we want it to be.   Especially when we look at ourselves. Most happy people possess this special wisdom of self introspection, because acknowledging everything in its correct form,  and weighing it according to a happier value system, leads to a balanced and happy life.  Wise men look at the universe, and acknowledge it, just as it is. 
Healing


    When it comes to medical science mankind made a giant leaps and bounds and we are able to heal most common diseases with little or no effort. Despite those great advances in healing a broken body, very little progress has been made to heal a broken spirit.  Medical statistics show a startling trend:  the most  prescribed and consumed medications are ones that treat psychological disorder,  brain unbalance,  depression and the like. 

    Healing a broken spirit is not difficult.  Of course, just like everything else once we know how to do it, things become easy.  So here's a recipe how to heal a broken spirit.  Remember,  every recipe or knowledge shared assumes the listener has a certain  level of wisdom. So interpret carefully,  as we are trying to make things better not worse.

    Many times, the broken spirit is coming from a loss of a loved one. The loss is manifesting itself as a loss of expectation in continuity of life with that loved one. Death is part of natural life. Embrace it, celebrate it. And think of the wish of the love one. Would he/she wish you to be sad or would he/she wish you to be happy.

   Also frequent, - and serious - is a loss of any kind. An unfulfilled expectation,  an unsuccessful adventure or anything that did not fulfill our desire.  It may result in depression,  withdrawal from society,  or simply a total surrender.  The surrender may result in alcoholism, or addictions of other kind. The the cure is easy.  Dispose of the  expectation that created the unbalance.  Look at things as they are, not as you want them to be.  Let go of your vision and accept reality.  

   Let me give you an example of false expectations.  When I was a child, I was watching a Sci-Fi movie, and noticed the laboratory scientists  wearing a white laboratory coat.  I decided,  when I grow up,  I want to be a laboratory scientist like that.  I want to wear a white laboratory coat,  and do important things.  However,  to my great disappointment,  I did not become a laboratory scientist.  So according to my missing expectation I should be sad.  

   But I understood that I created that expectation when I was not old enough to really create an expectation. I filled  up the whole chalkboard with expectations,  even though I had insufficient information  at the time. The cure is to erase that chalkboard, and create a new fresh set of expectations to replace the old ones.  Better still, leave the chalkboard empty and accept the universe as it is.  In my example, if I would focus on my disappointment of not wearing a white laboratory coat,  I would miss the glory and the grandeur of my current life today. Because I am creating things that are just as important or even more important than any laboratory coat wearing scientists can create.

   Erase your chalkboard of expectations.  Most of those were created with little insight,  too early in life to be of any realistic value.   The type of partner you envision for yourself,  the type of person you aspire to be, the type of environment you want to be in … are all expectations you created at the time when you had inadequate information to create them.  According to ancient saying,  the number one cause of human suffering is expectations.  Erase yours.  Create new ones. So you can be happy.

  


Inalienable

   Our existence is strongly interlinked with society. Things that we assume that are inalienable rights, things that we take for granted, are all provided to us by society.  Admittedly we are contributors,  but we cannot replace or substitute the powers that are given to us by society.  Consider; would you be able to generate your own electricity? Would you be able to create a car for yourself?  Would you be able to feed yourself  (or your family) to the same standards afforded to you by participating in society?

    The current and later stages of human history are strongly interlinked with - and connected to - society.  Imagine you are on a desert island with no society around.  How would you create the roads, the cars, the electronics. Even survival is at premium. Society gives us all these things we take for granted.  

   The reason why this is important to recognize,  is because it makes us (inter) connected.  It makes us interdependent. Dependent on each other.  We are contributors,  but we where not born that way.  It takes a thorough education and a lot of hard work to be able to usefully contribute.  As society advances, it takes more and more education and  more hard work to be able to have useful contribution.  This comes at a high price. And here it is: 

   Because it is harder and harder to contribute, more and more people are falling to the way side. 

    Unfortunately,  the 'falling to the wayside' has severe consequences.  Consequences that affect our everyday life.  This is why we have more and more homeless,  and more and more outcasts.  They are appearing on the streets and in  most every aspects of life.  It is not particular to any country or any culture, this is a symptom of society requiring a higher and higher degree of preparedness for useful contribution.  Even though our productivity as well as our created 'value' has reached apparent maximum,  for many of society members, it has reached minimum.

     There is no other way to cope with this phenomena, but to apply compassion and humbleness.  Society's advances created this gap. It was inevitable, we have to deal with it.  Strong measures should be taken to pull everybody up to the level of useful contribution.  In cases, that it is not possible, compassion is of utmost importance.  We have to make sure,  that we  meet those members of society's basic needs,  and assist them into human dignity.  At the final count, people who fell on the wayside, are not at fault.  It comes out of the workings of all that came before. We should not blame them, but accept, that it is the result of a change, that they had no control over.  This is especially important with the elderly population. How we permit them dignity, how we meet their basic needs is a test of who we are as a society.

     The 'wayside and unfortunate' do not need judgment.  They need somebody to tell them it is going to be okay.  They need somebody who helps them.  They need somebody who understands them.  Feeling unappreciated and useless manifests itself severely.  It is not uncommon that those members of society turn to drugs, alcohol, mass murder.  It is society's best interest to afford them human decency, human dignity, which may prevent the suffering and atrocities that ensue.



Joke  

     I have a lot of confrontations arising out of the fact that people address me,  and they think that they are joking.  But it is not funny,  and it is downright dis-respective. Everybody is a comedian.  In real life, it is rarely the case.  Leave the joking to the professionals, and come forth as your true and honorable self.

   By no means I'm trying to say don't joke.  Feel free to have fun, where appropriate. Obtain the other person's permission before you do so. Never ever pull a joke on a.) Other people's expense b.)  Something obvious c.)   A disability or a disadvantage (perceived or not)  d.)  Joke that demeans  or devalues a person / object / culture. 

    Do not snipe.  In this context sniping means that you're going past the person, making a comment and not allowing them time to respond.  Typical examples of sniping would be: 'you are fat', or 'you are slow' while jogging on the street …  etc.

    Consider the seriousness of false humor.  Behind every joke - however abstract -  there is a small grain of truth.  But the truth is not always an easy factor to deal with.  I have no statistical information, but my conjecture is this half of the spontaneous armed shootings start as a joke. Consider before you pull an unsolicited joke with a person; would you be able to handle their response if  they produced a weapon?

   Do make a joke, that is not at anybody's expense,  that is imaginative.  That shows a strength as weakness or a weakness as strength.  That portrays the universe from an unexpected point of view.  Make a joke that is not culture specific.  Remember, we are approaching the state of global village.  True greatness in joking stands up in front of multiple points of views, in multiple languages, in front of multiple cultural observers.  If this sounds too hard,  leave the joking to the professionals. 

    In my journeys,  especially in journeys in cultures that are blessed with freedom, people have too easy access to each other.  Perhaps because of this easy access,  people are disrespectful,  people pull jokes easily.  Once more, nothing against fun, but things already came too far. Respect each other.

   Whenever you encounter another human being, consider,  you have encountered another fellow creature that is the most powerful creature the universe had ever produced.  And do not let looks fool you.  Most of the powerful and influential people do not cater to their looks as the primary means of interaction.  Do not be surprised, for instance, the homeless person you walked by every morning; - at one point in time - he created the vaccine that saved your life when you where a child.  Most of our greats pass away silently. That is why they are the greats. Respect them. Cherish them.

    In some countries,  whenever you encounter another human being,  they let you know, sometimes enforce,  that you have encountered the most powerful creature of the universe. That is the other extreme.  As usual,  it would be awesome to create a happy middle.  Be humble.  Be equal. Share. Judge less. Show respect. People go through unimaginable hardships. Help whenever you can. And read on.

   
Kitchen 

     When cleaning the  kitchen table, (by wiping it with a rag)  however unbelievable this may sound, we are not cleaning anything. We are merely shifting dirt from the table onto the kitchen rag.  As far as the universe is concerned one cannot clean.  We can only transfer dirt from one place on to a different location. When cleaning the kitchen table with the kitchen rag we are transferring the dirt from the table to the rag and then we are transferring the dirt into the kitchen sink with the assistance of water.

    One would interpret that this shifting the dirt metaphor is specific to the cleaning domain.  Not so.  Physics tells us that matter cannot appear and cannot vanish.  It can only be converted. If converted to energy, there is a straight correlation of matter to energy.  So energy is conserved as well.  It merely changes forms. 

    There are human implications of this kitchen rag metaphor. For instance; One creature's death is another creature's life.  From the creature's point of view it is a matter of life and death,  and self protection matters awaken,  from the universe's perspective life force got transferred.  Another instance; Giving a pay raise to a worker. From the universe's vantage point, currency got reallocated from one worker to the other or from the corporation / boss to the worker.  The aforementioned examples prove,  that no matter what we do,  there are multiple facets of our actions.  The issues are complex, always. So when we do something, we have to evaluate all consequences on others and on the universe. 

    There are questions that one may pose in an attempt to evaluate the effects on the universe. These questions  are similar  to the questions in the chapter 'Good' with some additions.  The questions are: Does my action harm anyone / anything. Does my action result in benefits to anyone? Do the benefits outweigh the side effects or the harmful effects. What is the cost of my action and what is the reward  to others to the universe?  Lastly,  the questions may point inwards to evaluate the benefits for oneself.

    Sadly, most of the time,  the only questions are asked, concern the benefit for oneself. To paraphrase: a benefit for me. What do I get? As a society, as we advance and develop, people become more and more selfish. Selfish to the degree that they are not even considering the actions and the effects of actions on others and on the universe. The result? Poverty, homelessness, and global pollution. 

     Intuitively we assume, the richer the country is, the less homelessness it experiences,  the less pollution it outputs and the less suffering it imposes on its people. Deplorably, the formula is just the opposite. The richer the country, the  more intense the suffering, selfishness,  inequality, paranoia.  It is interesting, that as society advances, we would expect that happiness, wealth, security, safety grows in proportion, but in reality all of those attributes become worse.

    Why is it reverse?  Perhaps the kitchen rag deposits more dirt on the table than it removes. There are many things in the universe that are in reverse order in reference to our expectations. When you stand in front of the mirror, and attempt to shake hands with yourself, the wrong hand comes up. You expect to reach across, but you need to raise your hand straight to reach your mirror image. Remember this when you think people misunderstand you. The universe responds not to our image, but to our mirror image.

 
Looks

    A famous saying from the past, which I am sure everyone is familiar with, talks of a dream where a person is judged by his/her character and not by the color of his skin.  I would go even further.  I wish, I dream, that a person is judged by his character and by his actions, and not judged by what he wears, how he dresses, how he smells, what he looks like, how he talks, where is he is from, what language or accent he speaks with,  what's religion he is a member of. 

   There is a fine line we have to walk when applying judgment.  In nature,  judgment could be a matter of survival. Unfortunately we apply judgment even if we do not have survival level issues.  I have observed  many time, two people meeting the first time, asking where  each other is from, and after establishing each others places of origin, an immediate pecking order ensues.  The strangest part is that both were from a different country relative to the place of  their meeting.  Their original preconceptions  of - prescribed pecking order - reestablished itself .  One was looking down on the other based upon empirical history, that had nothing to do with neither person, nothing to do with their current country, nothing to do with anything other than old-fashioned empirical judgment.

    This judgment can be so strong,  that the dominant person does not care about the perceived lesser one.  We are talking about two strangers in a third country,  and judgment put them back into their original frame of   empirical pecking order.  Because the dominant person did not care about the lesser one,  the  interaction went as far as a literal invasion of the other.  It was interesting to observe,  that this invasion is how one empire justifies nullifying the other. 

   Of course today we know the backbone of this is that both human beings are equal. No distinction should be  made or can be made between them.  The two are equal in every possible and imaginable way.  For example one  possesses strengths in one direction, the other  has strengths in a different direction. Summarizing the strengths of  each individual, they are equal.  (as opposed to identical) There can be no assumption of pecking order, no justification of the invasion, and no account of any discriminating treatment. 

    Once the equality is understood,  new possibilities are given birth to. Differences and diversity can be a source of enormous strength.  Examining history, every empire that embraced these differences, and took advantage of the power of diversity was a successful empire.

    It goes without saying that the thinking that allows the phrase 'successful empire' is an outdated model of thinking.  Instead of a 'successful empire' slogan, wee need to allow for the beginning of happier human race.  The outdated thinking of one empire's  success depends upon another empire's hardship should be replaced with every empire can be successful in creating the happier human race. 

   Even in today's world, some empires exclaim 'Look at our achievements' 'Look at our great language'  'Look at our wealth'  and keep silent about the cost of those achievements.  The suffering, the homelessness, the invasion of the lesser empire (by whatever means) all speak to the false identity of this model.  The new model should aim for equality,  empowerment,  happiness,  freedom, self-expression,  tolerance,  both inside and outside of the empire, embracing the whole of mankind.
 
Molecules 

    Not far from where I reside, there is a small river flowing into the sea.  Every time I crossed the bridge on that river, I observe the tide is carrying the water.  Sometimes the water is flowing towards the ocean and sometimes the water is flowing towards the land, and some of the time, it is stationary.  One time while looking at the river, I considered, that very water molecule, that is under the bridge right now, how does it know which way to flow?

     Well, that molecule doesn't know which way to flow.  But it knows its neighbor.  And the neighbor molecule knows its neighbor,  and so forth until we arrive to the forces that affect the water to flow up or down the river.  This means the molecule that is under the bridge, is connected via other molecules to the moon by way of nearest neighbor interaction. In fact it is connected to the whole universe. For example the planet Jupiter affects are tide,  so the molecule under the bridge is affected by Jupiter.

    The whole universe is connected.  Wow. The strength of the connectivity is assigned by the reverse square distance rule. The further something is, the less effect  it has. But it has effect no matter how far it is.  This has enormous anthropoid implications. If anyone suffers, the whole humanity experiences it.  If millions suffer, the whole humanity endures that as well. If one human is happy, the whole humanity feels it.  As the universe is connected,  the connection is unconditional,  there can be no exceptions.

   It is all too easy to separate ourselves as individuals, and believe we are the exception. We think these rules do not apply to us. But no man is an island.  No man can succeed without everyone succeeding.  So people who are successful,  need to be humble,  and acknowledge everyone else's contribution. People who succeeded,  need to share that success.  Especially if they succeed on the backs of many.  No man ever created large abundance by himself on a desert island.

   Excessive abundance is only possible by exploitation. We, as humanity,  have total power over not permitting that. Simply, the universe is built that way,  we just have to encourage its mechanism. Even karma works as prescribed. Almost, without exception,  people with excessive abundance are unhappy,  isolated,  fear driven and dejected. People with excessive abundance  surrendered their life to it.  They are too busy  protecting and maintaining that abundance,  never experiencing true life.

   Many times, excessive abundance is a result of false learning. That person, when experiencing  unnecessary hardship,  had this faulty take away.  He / she learned that no one takes care of them,  so when next time they have an opportunity, they take care of themselves.  This manifests itself as greed and hoarding. Had we had a society,  that took care of unnecessary hardship,  he / she would not have had the false learning, and as a result, we would not have the excessive abundance (greedy) layer of humanity.

    We are all molecules in a great sea of humanity. No molecule is more important than the other, and no molecule is less important. Each and every one of us can change whole humanity, by affecting the molecule next to us.  When you see suffering - instead of judgment - assist with a  helping hand. When you see hunger, offer food. When you see thirst offer water.  When you see mental anguish, offer mental nourishment. All you have to do is affect the molecule next to you. The rest will fall into place.
Newton

   Newtonian Karma is a popular buzzword. One cannot underestimate the importance of it. I am sure that everyone is familiar with Newton's law that describes a force will be always met with an equal and opposing force.  Applying this to Karma is very simple: a good deed will be matched with an equal good deed or a bad deed will be matched with an equal bad deed.

    I discovered this is a child.  My version of this was a little different.  I observed, that if someone threw a punch, - unconditionally - someone else received a punch.  And there can be no exceptions.  If someone threw a punch, guaranteed someone else receives it. Even if it happened without the knowledge of parents, teachers, even if it happened behind closed doors the rule of punch could never be circumvented.  

   Newtonian Karma shows us that for every good or bad deed there is an equal and matching opposing good or bad deed. The interval upon which the equalization from the opposing deed takes place is specific to the particular instance. Some deeds yield in an immediate equalization,  some deeds may take years or generations to equalize. One thing for sure, the Newtonian Karma will equalize, and the universe's balance will be restored.  Just like the punches thrown and received are equalized. It all happens automatically, by the shear function of the universe. We do not have to do nothing to aid the equalization process.

  This sets a new standard for desired behavior. Everything we do has an effect on the universe,  and everything we do sets in motion a Newtonian Karma reaction.  To that end ….. Treat everyone as you would like to be treated.  Correct every mistake as soon as you make it.  Deal fairly,  give as much as you take. Create a happy and prosperous environment, as  good as you yourself want to have. Create abundance in equal proportions, matching your expectations to receive. 

  Exclude no one, every life matters.  Newtonian karma will make no exception.  Newtonian karma will not care about closed doors, about secret arrangements, about good intentions, bad intentions, about race, color, gender, wealth, education or association. It will simply restore the balance of the universe. No entity, no empire is strong enough to resist it. History proves it over and over.

   For all of us, it is possible to deal in a way, that every party involved, benefits. In fact, if a deal was made, and only one party benefits and another party loses, it is called a fraud. Do not create a fraudulent situation, even is circumstances permit it. Karma will equalize your temporary gain. Operative word, temporary. Find a way to conduct your affairs so that everyone benefits. All the time. It is possible.

   The alligator will death roll with everyone in the same direction. Do not believe you are an exception. Accept that the universe is greater and stronger than anyone, and acknowledge that it will restore it's balance no matter what your individual perception is. 

    I am sure if you reconcile this chapter with the 'Good and Bad' chapter you immediately notice the definition of Good and Bad is fluid. Good and bad is dependent on our value system, and on our point of view. This makes the Newtonian Karma particularly interesting. Newtonian Karma in vector space. Still true, still valid, but it may be a tad harder to navigate. Waver not, the universe will navigate it for you without fail.

Old 

      If you look at a tree in your neighborhood (or a bush if you don't have trees  around you)  ask the question:  how did it get there? Why is it there?  Why not 10 feet to the left or 3 meters to the right?  The answer to that question is: reality.  Reality as it is now.  Everything that came before, resulted in what we see today, including that tree in that place.

     It looks like such a simple assumption,  but most people do not have the respect to see reality as it is. They assume a point of view that is convenient to them,  and are blind to the actual reality that surrounds them. But the aforementioned tree is firmly planted, and in most cases, even a hurricane can not harm that tree. It would be foolish to ignore reality as it is.  It is strong, it is powerful,  it just is. And it is the result of everything that came before.

   The proof of  not seeing reality as it is, can be witnessed by observing particular country's elections. To start with, most countries have a somewhat oppressive regime. With the wave of democracy propagating worldwide, they all believed in a fresh start, and elected new (democratic like) leadership. So far so good, but after two to four elections, they tend to re-elect an old (oppressive like) regime. And this did not happen to some of them, but happened to ALL of them.

   If you recall all of these events, you immediately wonder what is the message the universe is trying to convey?  The answer is stated above. We are not seeing reality as it is. Had those countries approach change to democratic governance in a gradual process, everything would have worked out as intended.  Ignoring the current state of reality creates  this outcome.  Very unfortunate, that this creates indescribable hardships.  I hope, we will be wiser in the future.

   Only a few times in history it is appropriate to ignore the current state of reality.  Sometimes, things need to be rebuilt from the ground up.  Our wisdom is called upon to recognize when we can ignore the current state.  It really comes down to a recognition between evolutionary change and revolutionary change.  There are no hard and fast rules to apply on that determination.  Perhaps, asking cooperation from all corners of the universe,  including the adversary in play.  This permits us to avoid the hardship associated with the revolutionary change.  Please do not mix up the term 'revolutionary change' with 'revolution'.  Revolutionary change can take place  in science,  in religion,  in medicine  and almost any associated aspect of life. Shortchanging the meaning of the word  would be giving in to fear.

   A final thought on respecting reality as it presents itself.  A phenomena called 'Peer Reinforcement'. Many times I observe a small group of people agree on something, and they concur that what they believe, is what reality is.  It is an easy mistake to make, and possibly one of the most harmful fault any group can have. History has a multitude of occurrences of this. Millions and millions of people have been killed by this 'Peer Reinforcement' righteousness. One of the safest ways to avoid 'Peer Reinforcement', is to include people in the group with opposing points of views.  Then, weigh all input before establishing your view on 'Reality' (Note the quotes).  

   In the information age, establishing your picture of reality is of paramount importance. Luckily, this very information age that makes it so important, also helps on navigating it.  And do not forget, when you see reality, you see all that came before. Your elders, your surroundings, your current state. Respect them. 
Potato

   When navigating the spiritual universe,  conventional physics do not apply.  Somewhat similar to particle physics and quantum theory, where conventional physics do not apply either.

   Here is what I mean. When you have a box of fries in your hand, and give some of it to your friend,  you end up with less fries.  But when you are in a good mood, smile, laugh and share it with your friend, you end up with more smiles and more laughs than you had originally.  This is where conventional physics breaks down. When you share something spiritual,  you end up receiving more.

   It does not have to be a friend that you share with. It can be a stranger. The more you share the more you end up with. You can share a kind word or a  thoughtful observation.  Even a joke. Be mindful that a kind word is language neutral and cross-cultural, a joke may be culture specific. So when you choose your spiritual bridge, make sure you do not create a joke that is at the other person's expense (or at anyone's expense for that matter).  Be gentle, be universal and share genuinely.  Whatever you share allow a dialogue to take place, do not snipe or create a one-way communication.  Be kind and accept whatever response you get, and accept it graciously. No matter what perceived pecking order you are in.

   Even though conventional laws of physics do not apply, whatever you are sharing you are in the other person's personal space.  Be very conservative on what you output, and very liberal on what you accept.  There is no better way to bridge the gap between cultures than to share a laugh,  and communicate with a smile. It is very easy, because the more you share the more you have for yourself.

   The universe presents a mirror image of ourselves. You stand in front of a mirror, and you try to shake hands with your mirror image. Notice, the wrong hand comes up in the mirror. A very strong metaphor for how we are perceived in the universe, and  how we perceive things. We have to acknowledge that our mirror image is not what we think it is. We need to accept it, and take good care of presenting the best possible image without games, layers and pretense.  This calls for being genuine, being helpful and being honorable.  And that is in the spiritual realm, so the more we do it, the more we get back. As opposed to fries, where the more we share, the less we have.

   This mirror image presents interesting side effects.  For example if we think another person as hostile,  we are the hostile one.  If we think another person is paranoid,  we are paranoid.  This side effect also goes to  unexpected corners like mirroring the behavior of a whole society or a whole country. Just think of a war situation.  Where we believe we should attack, kill, destroy,  we are dealing with our mirror image.  Wanted or not,  our mirror image creates the attack - kill - destroy scenario on both sides.

    It is essential that we accept our own mirror image.  And to project a mirror image worthy of imitation,  worthy of acceptance,  worthy of remembering.

Query

   When I walked by a circle of people sitting around the fire, I noticed that they are eating something I have not recognized,  perhaps have not seen before.  So I posed the query: what are you eating?  And they said something  that sounded too African for me to comprehend. The answer did not  clarify what they were eating,  but as I got closer, it became apparent that the circle of men were eating giant black bugs.

    As I had cultural bias against eating insects, I was resisting, and immediately posed the next question:  How does it taste?  The answer came swiftly. Possibly, I was not the first that posed this question,  so they had an answer pre-loaded:  It tastes like chicken. 

    Later in life I learned, that many cultures eat insects. In fact, it possibly is the best thing a human can consume, full of protein and  several other nutritious ingredients.  So why does our culture refrain from eating such a great nutritional item?  We may not need to answer that question, but we do need to make an observation about keeping an open mind.

   From that same tribe I learned an answer to the most essential human question.  The query is:  what are two most important days of your life?  Of course, we have a commonplace answer to that,  and we say that the two most important days of our lives are: The day we were born, and the day we die. The tribe members however  had an answer that takes  this query to a whole new dimension: The two most important days of your lives are: The day you were born, and the day you find out what you were born for.

    Indeed, this creates a whole  new context around the aforementioned question. It is more important than anyone would realize, because this context describes: Purpose. Though many find purpose in life,  few find it earlier, some later but some never find it. Once a  human being finds his / her purpose everything falls into place naturally.  Motivation ensues, health improves, relationships forge, and destiny is set. All happens organically. While this description is similar to describing a religious experience, it is more universal than that, as it happens to most every creature.

   This transformation of finding a purpose is not the exclusive domain of human beings.  If you watch a cat or a dog playing,  you can recognize that the dog or cat is preparing all its life for its intended purpose.  In fact a difference between the dog's play and the cat's play highlights the different purpose of the different creatures.  I would postulate, that every single thing in the universe is fulfilling a purpose,  and that thing is only complete when it is on the path of fulfillment.

   That purpose is visible in every aspect of our lives.  For instance if I eat food that doesn't agree with me,  I get a headache, and a mechanism kicks in to restore my well-being. If I nick myself by accident, another mechanism kicks in to heal my wound.  And if I permit it, (by rest, cleaning and proper care) it will restore everything to its original state. The query is: how does it know what the original state is?  How does it know what is well-being?  

   We witness miracles every minute.  Keep an open mind,  be humble, and acknowledge that everything has a purpose. And the universe is greater and stronger then we could ever comprehend. Miracles and all.
Religion

    They say if you believe, no explanation is needed, if you do not believe, no explanation is possible. Potentially, this is the reason why there are so many anomalies arising from religion. Instead of focusing on the commonality we lock onto the difference. 
 
   The commonality is easy to find. Human beings are spiritual beings.  We all need salvation,  we all need guidance,  we all need something to believe in.  To this end, religion is a manifestation of our spiritual need.  Unfortunately - over mankind's history - religion evolved differently in different territories.  Religion became specific to areas, specific to languages, specific to the needs of the current ruler.  The greatest proof of religion is specific to area / language, is that country borders also present themselves as religion boundaries.

    In the time of globalization, those religious differences manifest themselves. This imposes great suffering, creating hardship where there is no hardship necessary. All we have to do, is focus on the human need for spirituality. Find what is common in us.  Once we arrive to that greater wisdom, we can accept anybody's and everybody's religion. Corollary, we can count on that our religion will be accepted by others.

     The time of global village has arrived. With the information age, information travels freely, ignoring and transgressing once insurmountable borders and boundaries.  We have no choice but to adapt to this new situation.  We have to contend with every religion, every faith, every belief. Not just accept it but  welcome it,  embrace its diversity.  History has proved us,  the happiest the strongest and the most successful entity was the one  that embraced diversity.  It is the true image of the universe, we have to accept this reality as it is presented.

   Not accepting this reality leads to hate.  Hate leads to anomalies, confrontations, fear, suffering, even wars.  Possibly the saddest report card on humanity is that in the 21st century we still have active wars. Further, we have more wars today than any time in history. Hundreds of thousands if not millions of humans are displaced,  most people cannot find their self-expression, and whole generations cannot find their path for contribution to society.  All of those can be stopped with the following simple mental exercise:  Acceptance, tolerance, letting go of obsolete values,  letting go of greed, and fear.  Helping each other, nourishing the ones in need, and treating the disadvantaged with honor.

   There are recent initiatives that prove, we  have already entered the path of universal acceptance and peace. The people in need receive more and more help. Jut the other day, I walked by a private house with a commercial refrigerator at the end of the driveway. The fridge was stuffed with food,  and displayed the sign:  Take what you need,  donate if you can.  Enterprises like these show me, that the good outweighs the bad,  and we are on the right track for creating human dignity and universal peace. 

    Perhaps another step, is when we recognize that if every person refused to hate, if every soldier refused to fight,  if every worker refused to create weapons, if every supplier of aggression would stop supplying aggression, wars would stop.  And the few who bully the people into conflicts and create hardship, would never ever again would be able to do so.

Snake

    Imagine, you are walking down a country road, and behind the bushes you hear a snake rattle.  It is warning you not to come any closer.  You don't want your walk down the country road to turn to a deadly encounter, so you evade the bush and keep on walking.  A couple of days later you're walking on the same path,  and when you come to that very bush, you remember the encounter, and steer clear.  You do not see or hear a snake, but your memory serves you, and protects you from another potential deadly encounter. 

    Congratulations.  You just experienced post traumatic stress disorder.  Please note that nothing happened  to you and you did not even see the snake, but your memory and your self protection mechanisms created this pattern of behavior.

    This is the same disorder that can be observed on veterans who return from active duty.  Because their danger was real, the happening boundlessly graphic, the psychological effect is infinitely larger.  But no one talks about the real reason of the post traumatic stress disorder. The great unbalance that was created. The unbalance that comes from a spiritual revulsion. And it is the following: there is no possible cause that can exist to compel one person to take another human's life.  That is the inherent conflict. No possible reason can exist that justifies taking another person's life. Never.

      The Empire is very good at convincing people otherwise. Good at giving reasons why it is honorable to take another human being's life.  They create this mystery of an enemy,  they convince everybody that is either us or them.  Here, we are using the term 'Empire' very loosely,  because in human history the Empire has changed, but the mission to convince people to be enemies have stayed constant.  Of course looking at it from the other Empire's perspective,  it is the same agenda from the opposite side of the coin. 

     It is sinful, that we humans permit the Empire to create that agenda.  A relatively recent experience comes to mind,  where a person armed with a  handgun and a high definition camera videotaped the execution of a foreign national.  The Empire immediately cried foul,  convincing its  population to drop bombs on the executioners and eradicate them from existence.  I remember, the citizenry was ready to hate, and within days, most of them cheered the empire on.

    Interestingly, no Empire took the following point of view: That person shot an innocent human being, let us find the chain of command upon which he will be made accountable for his actions. Because this view would not support the Empire's agenda, would not justify a giant weapon infrastructure,  would not assist the hate machine, and would not play to the current way of the existence of the Empire. Thus the opposite was achieved. The empire's war machine destroyed the chain of command that potentially could hold the man accountable. Unfolding a fully blown conflict.  Sad, that in history this horror happened over and over, and we did not learn.

    We, the people have to put an end to this behavior.  The whole human race. The Empire itself will never resolve to change this. None of the empires would. It is in their interest to keep homeostasis. The people have to disallow this conduct, to not permit it to exist in its current form. Then, and only then, the Empires will talk and resolve everything through legal means and negotiations.  And then, only then can we hope for more happiness and world peace. We have achieved so much, we have the infrastructure in place, we are capable and willing to do it, all we need is the people to stand up and correct the Empire's behavior towards a more peaceful coexistence. 
The Human Tribe

    For centuries,  possibly millenniums,  mankind existed in small groups. These small groups can be   thought  of as a family,  an extended family or a tribe.  Only later, after the process of tribal existence,  was mankind able to form a society.  Because of this long history of tribal existence, our brain has evolved to only process information flow from an extended family or tribe. Anything more than that, creates an overflow that we cannot process.  

    For example, a news about a murder  that happened 2000 miles away,  reaches  - on average -  300 million people. The huge number of people that the news footage reached, will look over their  shoulder, with a little bit of worry (especially in the dark)  for a while. This worry is induced by the news footage, because our brain is incapable of comprehending the 300,000,000 to 1 ratio. That is a ratio that is  roughly equivalent of a chance of winning the jackpot on the lottery.  Our brain cuts off at the ratio of the average number of tribal members. (plus or minus an order of magnitude) We cannot comprehend several orders of magnitude difference.

    Because of this overload, our brain is incapable of handling global news feed. The response is fatigue, exclusion, indifference or simply closing the information channel. (like avoiding any news)  As globalization happens, the Global Village is replacing the Tribal Village. We need to re-train our human Tribal Brain to our Global Village Brain.  While  the training of the tribal brain took  thousands of years, we only have a short period of time to retrain our brain to the global information flow. Where retrain is not possible, awareness helps a great deal.

   An important aspect of global village is global tolerance. Remember, in the tribal age, a member of the next tribe needed to be excluded. It was treated as an outsider, and in extreme circumstances was treated as an enemy. Especially, when the next tribe was competing for the same food source. But in the age of the global village, that is no longer the case. It is no longer desirable, and it is no longer an option. We need to expand our understanding, lower our threshold of expectations, embrace diversity. Diversity and variety is what gives globalization its power. Globalization is such a powerful force, that it may irrevocably unify all of mankind. Anyone who resists, anyone who insist on old models of thinking will experience hardship or simply will be left behind.

   Relics of the tribal age are still visible in several religions. Some of them contain arrangements to keep the other tribe's or other religion's members as outsiders. The religions themselves were created in  an age where this was an essential arrangement. They could only create concepts from their vantage point, and where limited  by the distance they could see. We could see further today, and should not be afraid to challenge concepts that have been created with limited visual distance.

    In the global village age, there are no outsiders and everyone needs to be embraced. Everyone needs to be treated like a member of our own tribe, our own religion, our own extended family. As a member of our own human nation. Accepting this might be difficult, but it is the easiest and safest way for global peace and happiness. 

    You may personally manifest this when you encounter a stranger.  Do not see a stranger.  Instead, see a (possible) future friend, or see another, equal human being. A being that needs a friend as much as you do.  Or a human who needs to be helped, assisted, supported or accompanied on the journey of a happier life. 
Underwear

     Every now and then,  in a place of  great wealth,  I address a stranger with the following question: Do you own a slave?  Needless to say, I get strange looks.  The first reaction of the people that I asked this question to, is that they very strongly disclaim owning a slave.  This question resonates especially loud in a place where there is a history of slavery.  Of course after the initial shock wears off,  my next questions are: Did you make your underwear?  Did you make your socks?  Did you slaughter the chicken that you had for lunch this week? Did you make your car?

   Now I get  mixed reactions.  The stronger they disclaimed owning a slave, the more I can see that I brought something into their attention they have never ever considered.  Indeed, somebody had to make those socks, somebody had sewn the underwear.  And yes, most likely, that somebody was paid minimum wage or less, working in inhumane conditions, in a cellar somewhere in the middle of a place we never heard of. So the answer is yes, that person in a place of great wealth,  wearing regular clothing, made by minimum wage labor, does own a slave.  How did we get this far?

   Maximizing productivity, pressing for lower price is a natural and healthy mechanism of competition. But how did we get from this healthy mechanism to virtual slavery? Why are we - who are strong -  did not stand up for the millions who live below the poverty line, virtually enslaved. Why are those who take profits of virtual slavery have no conscience? Why did they allow a creation of a system that created this unacceptable outcome.

   Far from me to question status quo. It is the result of all that came before.  Reluctantly, I accept.  However, I do not accept that it should continue.  Those who are in power, those who are in profit, should change this virtual slavery to an acceptable existence. Nothing radical, just a humane attitude that allows this shameful state to migrate into a humanly acceptable way of life.

  Remember, no empirical attitude permits to treat the other human being as a lesser one. (see  looks chapter)  There are benefits to creating a humble and humane environment.  Experience shows,  that a humane environment is more productive, creates more value, and is in balance that it does not need to be maintained by force.

    This may sound contradictory, but this virtual slavery exist even in the richest of places.  Law and Order allows the few to subdue the many - into virtual slavery.  Naturally this un-balance  is temporary. History has shown us,  that the universe will restore its balance. The question is,  will the balance be restored by assuming a humane attitude and pulling the lower ranks up, or  will  the balance be restored  by pulling the higher ranks down. Either way I hope it will be done without force, without sudden moves, unexpected side effects, without great suffering, serving greater happiness.

    The universe will restore its balance.  The question is at what cost.  Will it require those in  excess wealth to  voluntarily hand down or to compromise.  Will it require that those in virtual slavery to  force a collapse from  below.  Will it be a hybrid of the two?  Will automation and robotics save us?  
Venom

    Remember the  ultimate balance sheet of history?  Of any and all wars, if we look at the losses of the attacker side versus the attacked side, they endure about the same losses of lives. Thousands of years of human history,  and not a single exception. But, every empire that starts a conflict, believes they will be an exception to this balance sheet.  Still, to date, there is not a single one.  

   Those who ignore history tend to repeat its  failures. The question arises, are we ignorant enough to think that our balance sheet will be different?   Are we unlearned enough to think, that we can repair our own economy at the cost of lives?  By hate peddling? By conflict mongering? 

   Let me we give you a recent example of conflict mongering. The names have been omitted / changed to protect the guilty.  The story goes: in a far far away land, somewhere in the desert, a gun man executed a journalist on camera. We have all seen it in the news, and witnessed it with horror. What comes next is the fascinating part. The empire cried foul, wanted revenge. Immediately jumped into conclusions on attacking, dropping bombs, annihilating.  Instead of stating, that there is a person that broke the law, let's find a way to legally make him accountable, the empire  started a conflict mongering campaign.  

    This all played out in front of us as a barreling of news footage. Showing the true colors of the empire. Are we ignorant enough not to remember the balance sheets of history? Maybe it is too late for us.  Maybe conflict and war accompanied us for too long.  But it is not too late for the new generation.  We need to teach the new generation to not permit the empire to instill conflicts, not to solve matters with weapons. There is always a way without arms.

    Sadly,  we are teaching the new generation a different lesson. There are more armed conflicts today than at any time in history. But there is hope.  When a child is born,  he/she is full of innocence, happiness and joy.  Our innate traits supports peace and harmony.  All we need to do is NOT teach them the venom we learned.  Which is harder than it looks, but it has to start today.

    We do not have a choice, we have to stop the wars. Weapons have became so powerful, that we have enough weaponry to destroy the whole of humanity many many times over.  We have to acquire the reasons to refrain from starting conflicts. The ground for peace is really simple.  Human beings are more alike than different.  Because we are more alike, we mostly consume the same things,  we are happy about the same things and we suffer the same way. We have no secrets from each other. 

   When there are secrets,  there is greed,  there is suffering, there is hate. A great test of any empire is how many secrets they have.  A good measure of secrets is how hard it is to get security clearance.  Empires that have difficult security clearance  procedures, are the ones with the most secrets, are the ones with the most judgment, most conflicts, most greed, most hate. Interestingly, the difficulty of obtaining a security clearance is directly proportional to the ratio of homeless within that empire.

   
 
Wish

    We all wish for things from time to time. But the universe is very specific when it comes to wishes.  A friend of mine wished for more money, and his job offered him overtime.  He had more money, but he had to work a lot more.  Later he recalled, that he was not specific enough in his wish, he should have wished for more money with less work.

    In the near past, there was a record jackpot on the lottery.  How many people wished to hit that jackpot? And of course, one person did hit it. Was he happy?  Yes, in the short term.  Looking at past lottery winners, most of them declare bankruptcy, some of them die unexpectedly,  all of them are hounded by friends they didn't know they had.  At the final count, very few of them actually enjoyed this new and enormous wealth. What is the message the universe here? What is it saying concerning great wealth?

    I know a lot of really wealthy people.  But I can clearly state, that wealth and happiness are not connected traits.  In fact, quite the opposite. Most of the wealthy people I know are unhappy.  They are afraid of losing their wealth.  They are fully occupied with maintaining their perceived condition,  and overpowered by maintaining outward appearance. Because outward appearance is utmost importance for most of the wealthy. They want to distinguish themselves form others. In realism, most of the times, this was the driving force that made them wealthy.

   There is nothing wrong on being wealthy. Most wealthy people create wealth by creating abundance for others, and as a result, create abundance for themselves. The problem comes with the cases where the abundance is created with exploitation, fraud, bullying. I wish the wealthy person examines the abundance he / she created versus the abundance he received.  As a society, we need to examine if any person's wealth is backed up by matching contribution on creating that wealth. 

   They say, it is not having what you like, but liking what you have.  It goes for all things, not just wealth.  Happy and successful people are the ones who master the art of accepting their current reality, and carry it with a happy disposition.  For instance, an elderly lady I know, was  constantly grumpy.  I spoke to her and explained, that she has a wonderful and positive reality,  and she has the choice of carrying that  with grace, or carrying it with a grouch or as a burden. Her eyes lit up, and she made the connection to carry her current life with gracefulness. In context, she was well in her seventies, but this was the first time she have ever heard those words of wisdom.

   Finally, down to my wishes.  I have to make it specific, simple, and on target. By no means I can wish for everything, so I compiled a shortlist.  I wish that:
   
People will treat each other as they expect to be treated,
We learn the difference between the want and the need,
That we see the universe for what it is, not what we want it to be,
We find out how to share, respect each other and help each other,
And we can live in harmony with each other and the universe.

   Wealth,  achievements, possessions do not matter if we have no human context to enjoy it in. 

eXtras

  
    The universe is full of magic and full of wonders. If you are curious, if you are receptive, you will never be bored in your life.  Here are some of the universe's curious  and interesting items.

   Ever wondered if you where drop shipped anywhere on the planet,  if you could find your way back home?  If you would be able to discover where your at?   Let's start with the basics.  

    In most places, there are trees around. And looking at any tree you can immediately tell the tilt of the crown.  On the equator, the tilt of the crown is horizontal. Moving away from the equator, the tilt of the tree crown points to the highest energy impact, where the sun light is coming from.  It turns out the angle of this high energy impact is the exact same angle as the latitude the tree is on. You can confirm this by looking at pictures from Georgia or pictures from Massachusetts and compared the tilt of the tree's crowns.
   
     If there are no trees around,  but you see water,  you receive a different clue.  For instance in Florida the water has a greenish hue. (from dissolved copper ...) In the Bahamas water has a bluish hue.  In fact  the location of every body of water is recognizable with the little bit of observation powers. 

    No trees no water …  if you look at sand, for instance, the Arizona desert has a very different color compared to the Sahara desert. The extra sulfur makes the Sahara desert comparatively yellow.  In fact, you can tell where you are within the Sahara desert by looking at the shades of the sand,  parts of it have a reddish hue showing traces of iron.  There are no limits of how much observation you can do in the universe … Create your mental map.  The only limit is you.

    Look at a photograph.  If the photograph was taken in the northern parts of the world, it has a cold bluish blue.  If the photograph was taken in the  Equatorial parts of the world,  it has a  warm yellowish hue. (Angle of sun light) One would argue,  that this is an effect that is overpowered by the technological differences between the photographs.  Not so.  Our intuition adjusts to the hue  of the photograph as soon as we identify an object that we are familiar with. 

    We can tell if a dog is smiling.  Or a cat is in distress. They are very different creatures from us, yet we can tell their emotional state with certainty. How is that possible?  It turns out that they are not that different.  In a human being, the major emotions (fear / happiness / pain … etc)  are connected to specific facial muscle groups. In the animal kingdom those major emotions  are connected to the exact same muscle groups. That is why we recognize the emotional state of most every mammal.  Talk about the connected universe.  Indeed we are one with them, we need to respect all creatures.

    When we are calm, content, idle and at peace, we build a good map of the universe in our heads. You are in charge of the universe you build within you. Do not build it in anger, bitterness and hostility. Rather, build it with curiosity, naivety, happiness and enthusiasm. Repair the parts that you built when learning the wrong lesson,  revise the parts that you built with insufficient information.  Be liberal on what you accept and be conservative of what use as a building block.  For inspiration, look at an infant building his / her universe with naivety and curiosity.   Never let go of that.

   They say, that we gravitate towards people who build a similar universe within them.  Build yours in a way, that it is worth gravitating towards.
You

  You are the center of the universe. Yes you, the reader. But there's a slight hitch.  You the reader, are not the only one. Most or all of humanity believes that he or she is the center of the universe.   So how do we reconcile this?

    The idea here is that everyone is the center of the universe, and it is shared. Think about digging a hole with a shovel.  Even though digging a hole by oneself looks like a solitary experience,  it is not. If we look closer, we have to acknowledge the contribution of the person who forged the blade  for the shovel, the person who carved the handle, and the person who put it all together to make it a  working shovel.  But it goes even deeper. Contributions are made by the people who raised the tree for the handle, who mined the ore for the blade and so on.

     No man is an island. As you have seen even this simple act of digging, involved contributions from a multitude of people. So, when we believe we are the center of the universe, it is true in the sense, that one is the center of the universe, and we all share a piece. True greatness and achievement comes via the recognition of this power of shared position in the universe.

    How is it shared … you ask?  The universe's  center is shared based upon the individual's strength.  Staying with the shovel metaphor,  the person who carved handle is most likely good with wood work.  The person who forged the blade is most likely a person with experience with metal.  So we  all take up the center of the universe based upon our training, our education, our experience, our interests and our predispositions that has been given to us.

    In true greatness,  is one finds its call  when everything comes natural.  They say if you find this  call, and you work within these parameters, you will never work a day in your life.  So whatever you are doing today, ask yourself the question if it is in harmony with your interest in your predispositions and your wishes.  If it is you are a happy person. If it is not, strives to find the Avenue that fulfills the above preconditions.  You and the people around you, and the society surrounding you will benefit.

   The universe achieves balance  through your self-expression.  Society achieves prosperity, the individual achieves happiness finding this self-expression.  Nothing should stand in the way.  And if there is an obstacle imposed by another individual, imposed by society or any dictatorship or any empire, remove the obstacle.  Remove it with  negotiation, peace, honor, integrity,  and if necessary,  as a last resort, remove the obstacle by force. 
 
   Even though you are the center of the universe,  so are the other billions of human beings. Share this center of the universe, and create an environment where the cumulative self-expression puts the universe back in balance. If you are a force standing in the way of self-expression, examine the greater picture, and act accordingly. Empower everyone in your path towards achieving this greater self-expression.
ZigZag

   Zig or Zag. Our life is full of choices.  Nothing affects us more,  than the sum of our choices.  In fact,  the very place we are at right now, the very environment we are surrounded with,  the emotional disposition,  the financial state,  and pretty much everything else is the sum of all of our choices.

   When we look back, we can see if our choices were made according to the greatest outcome.  Do we accept the choices we made? Forgive the pun, but we have no choice but to accept the choices we made. But once we accept it,  and accept the place we are at,  healing and progress can begin.

    As you read it in different chapter,  we build a transcript (copy) of the universe in our heads.  We are totally in charge of this universe we build with in us,  and parts of that universe comes from the choices we made.  It is always easy to see in hindsight what choices were good and what choices were bad. Most of the times, the bad choices we made are the truly educational ones. We learn more from our failures than from our successes. So why would we want to deny the choices that taught us the most?

   We are the product of all those choices. The virtual universe we built within, the universe that surrounds us  is the result of the compound ancillary happenings that came before. Much like a palm tree, it stands strong, undeniable. So how do we create harmony and that in that virtual universe?  For starters, we need to unlearn and demolish all the virtual items that we created with insufficient information. Let me give you an example from my life.

   As a child I was watching TV,  and I've seen the laboratory workers do very important things in  white lab coats.  I was inspired by that,  and I wanted to be a scientist with a white coat,  working in a laboratory.  However if I look at my life today,  even though I am creating life-changing innovations, I am not wearing a white laboratory coat.  I built that expectation, when I had insufficient information to build it.

    We all build these misguided expectations.  For example, we have 'clear' idea of what our mate should look like. (muscles curves etc …) Where we want to live. What type of people we want to be, or surrounded with.  What kind of job we want to have.  These expectations are all created before we knew enough  about life to create them. We have to take steps to erase those expectations.  Now this is not easy.  Think of a chalkboard that  we filled up with all kinds of scribble,  and we need to erase most of it.

   But once this metaphorical chalkboard is erased, now we are ready to receive the universe as it is, to start our life anew.  We can begin living life in harmony with the universe, and it will open up new frontiers. It will initiate new beginnings and it will create unbelievable abundance and happiness. This enlightening thought, this enlightening phase of life, where we become in harmony with the universe is what many call salvation. You may find yours, all you have to do is erase your chalkboard of expectations, and become one harmonious being with the universe.

   The reward is beyond  expectations. And it is all happening within you.  No need to involve any higher power,  any external influence,  it comes simply by the workings of You and the universe.

Epilogue


    What a tangled web we weave. Everything is connected to everything someway, somehow. When you read the chapters in this book, you witnessed this contentedness. Chapters interweave, concepts intertwine. A concept expressed in one section, turned upside down or modified in the other. 

     It is not on purpose though. This is how the universe is constructed. We simply want to capture a particular point of view, but any vantage point sees into this complex web. The point of view we have chosen, is to expose a universe in motion, and humanities's progress towards the global village. 

     The intent of this document is to inspire everyone to a new code of behavior.  One that promotes peace, coexistence, self expression and happiness. Where no person is left behind. Where everybody has access to human dignity and basic needs. In the twenty first century we have access to all the means  to easily fulfill this mission. All we need is the wisdom and insight to share and help each other.

     We need to start open dialog with true participation. Without that, we will end up with policies that promote roach farming, or worse, play games like defaulting on bills for international organizations. We need to start accepting the universe as it is, and create our future from that.

   After reading these messages, I am sure you are ready for messages level two. It will continue the exciting journey  into the universe with more miracles and more magic. Stay tuned ….


